= 示例文件 =

%toc

== main.mk ==
{{{class="brush:bash"
......
BUILD_SYSTEM := $(TOPDIR)build/core

......
# Set up various standard variables based on configuration
# and host information.
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/config.mk

# This allows us to force a clean build - included after the config.make
# environment setup is done, but before we generate any dependencies.  This
# file does the rm -rf inline so the deps which are all done below will
# be generated correctly
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/cleanbuild.mk

......
# Bring in standard build system definitions.
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/definitions.mk

# Bring in dex_preopt.mk
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/dex_preopt.mk

......
# 查找所有子目录的Android.mk
subdir_makefiles := \
	$(shell build/tools/findleaves.py --prune=out --prune=.repo --prune=.git $(subdirs) Android.mk)

include $(subdir_makefiles)

......
# build/core/Makefile contains extra stuff that we don't want to pollute this
# top-level makefile with.  It expects that ALL_DEFAULT_INSTALLED_MODULES
# contains everything that's built during the current make, but it also further
# extends ALL_DEFAULT_INSTALLED_MODULES.
# 最终调用Makefile
ALL_DEFAULT_INSTALLED_MODULES := $(modules_to_install)
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/Makefile
modules_to_install := $(sort $(ALL_DEFAULT_INSTALLED_MODULES))
ALL_DEFAULT_INSTALLED_MODULES :=
}}}

== config.mk ==
{{{class="brush:bash"
......
# Try to include buildspec.mk, which will try to set stuff up.
# If this file doesn't exist, the environemnt variables will
# be used, and if that doesn't work, then the default is an
# arm build
# 包含自定义的mk
-include $(TOPDIR)buildspec.mk

# Define most of the global variables.  These are the ones that
# are specific to the user's build configuration.
# 环境变量设置
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/envsetup.mk

# Boards may be defined under $(SRC_TARGET_DIR)/board/$(TARGET_DEVICE)
# or under vendor/*/$(TARGET_DEVICE).  Search in both places, but
# make sure only one exists.
# Real boards should always be associated with an OEM vendor.
# 查找board_config_mk
board_config_mk := \
	$(strip $(wildcard \
		$(SRC_TARGET_DIR)/board/$(TARGET_DEVICE)/BoardConfig.mk \
		device/*/$(TARGET_DEVICE)/BoardConfig.mk \
		vendor/*/$(TARGET_DEVICE)/BoardConfig.mk \
	))
ifeq ($(board_config_mk),)
  $(error No config file found for TARGET_DEVICE $(TARGET_DEVICE))
endif
ifneq ($(words $(board_config_mk)),1)
  $(error Multiple board config files for TARGET_DEVICE $(TARGET_DEVICE): $(board_config_mk))
endif
include $(board_config_mk)
TARGET_DEVICE_DIR := $(patsubst %/,%,$(dir $(board_config_mk)))
board_config_mk :=

......
# 平台相关
combo_target := HOST_
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/combo/select.mk

# on windows, the tools have .exe at the end, and we depend on the
# host config stuff being done first

combo_target := TARGET_
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/combo/select.mk

# Pick a Java compiler.
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/combo/javac.mk
}}}

== pathmap.mk ==
- 定义了各种路径的变量和映射
- include-path-for可以根据短名来查找对应的路径

{{{class="brush:bash"
#
# A mapping from shorthand names to include directories.
#
pathmap_INCL := \
    bluedroid:system/bluetooth/bluedroid/include \
    bluez:external/bluetooth/bluez \
    glib:external/bluetooth/glib \
    bootloader:bootable/bootloader/legacy/include \
    corecg:external/skia/include/core \
    dbus:external/dbus \
    frameworks-base:frameworks/base/include \
    graphics:external/skia/include/core \
    libc:bionic/libc/include \
    libdrm1:frameworks/base/media/libdrm/mobile1/include \
    libhardware:hardware/libhardware/include \
    libhardware_legacy:hardware/libhardware_legacy/include \
    libhost:build/libs/host/include \
    libm:bionic/libm/include \
    libnativehelper:dalvik/libnativehelper/include \
    libpagemap:system/extras/libpagemap/include \
    libril:hardware/ril/include \
    libstdc++:bionic/libstdc++/include \
    libthread_db:bionic/libthread_db/include \
    mkbootimg:system/core/mkbootimg \
    recovery:bootable/recovery \
    system-core:system/core/include
    
#
# Returns the path to the requested module's include directory,
# relative to the root of the source tree.  Does not handle external
# modules.
#
# $(1): a list of modules (or other named entities) to find the includes for
#
define include-path-for
$(foreach n,$(1),$(patsubst $(n):%,%,$(filter $(n):%,$(pathmap_INCL))))
endef
}}}

== envsetup.mk ==
- 该文件定义了相关的环境变量，请查看[[Build环境变量]]。

{{{class="brush:bash"
......
# Set up version information.
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/version_defaults.mk

......
# Read the product specs so we an get TARGET_DEVICE and other
# variables that we need in order to locate the output files.
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/product_config.mk
}}}

== node_fns.mk ==
- import-nodes创建xxx.xxx.xxx形式的字符串，并赋予特定的值，如`PRODUCTS.build/target/product/core.mk.PRODUCT_NAME:=core`。
    - $(1)是一个字串，是输出变量的主干名。例如”PRODUCTS"和”DEVICES“。
    - $(2)是一个makefile文件列表，这些文件中应该含有对$(3)中变量的定义。
    - $(3)是一个变量列表。

{{{class="brush:bash"
......
#
# $(1): output list variable name, like "PRODUCTS" or "DEVICES"
# $(2): list of makefiles representing nodes to import
# $(3): list of node variable names
#
define import-nodes
$(if \
  $(foreach _in,$(2), \
    $(eval _node_import_context := _nic.$(1).[[$(_in)]]) \
    $(if $(_include_stack),$(eval $(error ASSERTION FAILED: _include_stack \
                should be empty here: $(_include_stack))),) \
    $(eval _include_stack := ) \
    $(call _import-nodes-inner,$(_node_import_context),$(_in),$(3)) \
    $(call move-var-list,$(_node_import_context).$(_in),$(1).$(_in),$(3)) \
    $(eval _node_import_context :=) \
    $(eval $(1) := $($(1)) $(_in)) \
    $(if $(_include_stack),$(eval $(error ASSERTION FAILED: _include_stack \
                should be empty here: $(_include_stack))),) \
   ) \
,)
endef
......
}}}

== product_config.mk ==
- 根据TARGET_PRODUCT查找相应的路径，并设置相关的环境变量
- 加载三个mk文件

{{{class="brush:bash"
# Convert a short name like "sooner" into the path to the product
# file defining that product.
#
INTERNAL_PRODUCT := $(call resolve-short-product-name, $(TARGET_PRODUCT))
#$(error TARGET_PRODUCT $(TARGET_PRODUCT) --> $(INTERNAL_PRODUCT))

# Find the device that this product maps to.
TARGET_DEVICE := $(PRODUCTS.$(INTERNAL_PRODUCT).PRODUCT_DEVICE)

# Figure out which resoure configuration options to use for this
# product.
PRODUCT_LOCALES := $(strip $(PRODUCTS.$(INTERNAL_PRODUCT).PRODUCT_LOCALES))

# Include the product definitions.
# We need to do this to translate TARGET_PRODUCT into its
# underlying TARGET_DEVICE before we start defining any rules.
#
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/node_fns.mk
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/product.mk
include $(BUILD_SYSTEM)/device.mk
}}}

== product.mk ==
{{{class="brush:bash"
# 查找AndroidProducts.mk
define _find-android-products-files
$(shell test -d device && find device -maxdepth 6 -name AndroidProducts.mk) \
  $(shell test -d vendor && find vendor -maxdepth 6 -name AndroidProducts.mk) \
  $(SRC_TARGET_DIR)/product/AndroidProducts.mk
endef

# Returns the sorted concatenation of PRODUCT_MAKEFILES
# variables set in the given AndroidProducts.mk files.
# $(1): the list of AndroidProducts.mk files.
#
define get-product-makefiles
$(sort \
  $(foreach f,$(1), \
    $(eval PRODUCT_MAKEFILES :=) \
    $(eval LOCAL_DIR := $(patsubst %/,%,$(dir $(f)))) \
    $(eval include $(f)) \
    $(PRODUCT_MAKEFILES) \
   ) \
  $(eval PRODUCT_MAKEFILES :=) \
  $(eval LOCAL_DIR :=) \
 )
endef

# Returns the sorted concatenation of all PRODUCT_MAKEFILES
# variables set in all AndroidProducts.mk files.
# $(call ) isn't necessary.
#
define get-all-product-makefiles
$(call get-product-makefiles,$(_find-android-products-files))
endef

# Functions for including product makefiles

_product_var_list := \
    PRODUCT_NAME \
    PRODUCT_MODEL \
    PRODUCT_LOCALES \
    PRODUCT_PACKAGES \
    PRODUCT_DEVICE \
    PRODUCT_MANUFACTURER \
    PRODUCT_BRAND \
    PRODUCT_PROPERTY_OVERRIDES \
    PRODUCT_CHARACTERISTICS \
    PRODUCT_COPY_FILES \
    PRODUCT_OTA_PUBLIC_KEYS \
    PRODUCT_PACKAGE_OVERLAYS \
    DEVICE_PACKAGE_OVERLAYS \
    PRODUCT_CONTRIBUTORS_FILE \
    PRODUCT_TAGS \
    PRODUCT_SDK_ADDON_NAME \
    PRODUCT_SDK_ADDON_COPY_FILES \
    PRODUCT_SDK_ADDON_COPY_MODULES \
    PRODUCT_SDK_ADDON_DOC_MODULE \
    PRODUCT_DEFAULT_WIFI_CHANNELS
}}}

== Makefile ==
- 编译工作完成后会执行Makefile做一些文件拷贝和镜像打包的工作。

{{{class="brush:bash"
......
# #################################################################
# Targets for boot/OS images
# #################################################################
# the ramdisk
INTERNAL_RAMDISK_FILES := $(filter $(TARGET_ROOT_OUT)/%, \
	$(ALL_PREBUILT) \
	$(ALL_COPIED_HEADERS) \
	$(ALL_GENERATED_SOURCES) \
	$(ALL_DEFAULT_INSTALLED_MODULES))

BUILT_RAMDISK_TARGET := $(PRODUCT_OUT)/ramdisk.img

# We just build this directly to the install location.
INSTALLED_RAMDISK_TARGET := $(BUILT_RAMDISK_TARGET)
$(INSTALLED_RAMDISK_TARGET): $(MKBOOTFS) $(INTERNAL_RAMDISK_FILES) | $(MINIGZIP)
	$(call pretty,"Target ram disk: $@")
	$(hide) $(MKBOOTFS) $(TARGET_ROOT_OUT) | $(MINIGZIP) > $@

......
# #################################################################
# system image
# #################################################################
systemimage_intermediates := \
	$(call intermediates-dir-for,PACKAGING,systemimage)
BUILT_SYSTEMIMAGE := $(systemimage_intermediates)/system.img

INTERNAL_SYSTEMIMAGE_FILES := $(filter $(TARGET_OUT)/%, \
	$(ALL_PREBUILT) \
	$(ALL_COPIED_HEADERS) \
	$(ALL_GENERATED_SOURCES) \
	$(ALL_DEFAULT_INSTALLED_MODULES))

ifeq ($(INTERNAL_USERIMAGES_USE_EXT),true)
## generate an ext2 image
# $(1): output file
define build-systemimage-target
    @echo "Target system fs image: $(1)"
    $(call build-userimage-ext-target,$(TARGET_OUT),$(1),system,$(INTERNAL_USERIMAGES_EXT_VARIANT),$(BOARD_SYSTEMIMAGE_PARTITION_SIZE))
endef

else # INTERNAL_USERIMAGES_USE_EXT != true

## generate a yaffs2 image
# $(1): output file
define build-systemimage-target
    @echo "Target system fs image: $(1)"
    @mkdir -p $(dir $(1))
    $(hide) $(MKYAFFS2) -f $(mkyaffs2_extra_flags) $(TARGET_OUT) $(1)
endef
endif # INTERNAL_USERIMAGES_USE_EXT

$(BUILT_SYSTEMIMAGE): $(INTERNAL_SYSTEMIMAGE_FILES) $(INTERNAL_USERIMAGES_DEPS)
	$(call build-systemimage-target,$@)

INSTALLED_SYSTEMIMAGE := $(PRODUCT_OUT)/system.img
SYSTEMIMAGE_SOURCE_DIR := $(TARGET_OUT)

......
# #################################################################
# data partition image
# #################################################################
INTERNAL_USERDATAIMAGE_FILES := \
	$(filter $(TARGET_OUT_DATA)/%,$(ALL_DEFAULT_INSTALLED_MODULES))

ifeq ($(INTERNAL_USERIMAGES_USE_EXT),true)
## Generate an ext image
define build-userdataimage-target
    $(call pretty,"Target userdata fs image: $(INSTALLED_USERDATAIMAGE_TARGET)")
    @mkdir -p $(TARGET_OUT_DATA)
    $(call build-userimage-ext-target,$(TARGET_OUT_DATA),$(INSTALLED_USERDATAIMAGE_TARGET),data,$(INTERNAL_USERIMAGES_EXT_VARIANT),$(BOARD_USERDATAIMAGE_PARTITION_SIZE))
    $(hide) $(call assert-max-image-size,$(INSTALLED_USERDATAIMAGE_TARGET),$(BOARD_USERDATAIMAGE_PARTITION_SIZE),yaffs)
endef

else # INTERNAL_USERIMAGES_USE_EXT != true

## Generate a yaffs2 image
define build-userdataimage-target
    $(call pretty,"Target userdata fs image: $(INSTALLED_USERDATAIMAGE_TARGET)")
    @mkdir -p $(TARGET_OUT_DATA)
    $(hide) $(MKYAFFS2) -f $(mkyaffs2_extra_flags) $(TARGET_OUT_DATA) $(INSTALLED_USERDATAIMAGE_TARGET)
    $(hide) $(call assert-max-image-size,$(INSTALLED_USERDATAIMAGE_TARGET),$(BOARD_USERDATAIMAGE_PARTITION_SIZE),yaffs)
endef
endif # INTERNAL_USERIMAGES_USE_EXT

BUILT_USERDATAIMAGE_TARGET := $(PRODUCT_OUT)/userdata.img
}}}
